1 - 4
Resumo. Este meta-artigo descreve o estilo a ser usado na confecc ¸ ˜ao de
artigos e resumos de artigos para publicac ¸ ˜ao nos anais das confer ˆencias
organizadas pela SBC. ´E solicitada a escrita de resumo e abstract ape-
nas para os artigos escritos em portugu ˆes. Artigos em ingl ˆes dever ˜ao
apresentar apenas abstract. Nos dois casos, o autor deve tomar cui-
dado para que o resumo (e o abstract) n ˜ao ultrapassem 10 linhas cada,
sendo que ambos devem estar na primeira p ´agina do artigo. Ap ´os o
resumo tamb ´em deve ser incluso as palavras-chave em portugu ˆes.
Palavras-Chave— um, dois, tr ˆes, quatro
1. General Information
All full papers and posters (short papers) submitted to some SBC conference, including
any supporting documents, should be written in English or in Portuguese. The format
paper should be A4 with single column, 3.5 cm for upper margin, 2.5 cm for bottom
margin and 3.0 cm for lateral margins, without headers or footers. The main font must
be Times, 12 point nominal size, with 6 points of space before each paragraph. Page
numbers must be suppressed.
Full papers must respect the page limits defined by the conference. Conferences
that publish just abstracts ask for one-page texts.
2. First Page
The first page must display the paper title, the name and address of the authors, the abstract
in English and “resumo” in Portuguese (“resumos” are required only for papers written
in Portuguese). The title must be centered over the whole page, in 16 point boldface font
and with 12 points of space before itself. Author names must be centered in 12 point font,
bold, all of them disposed in the same line, separated by commas and with 12 points of
space after the title. Addresses must be centered in 12 point font, also with 12 points of
space after the authors’ names. E-mail addresses should be written using font Courier
New, 10 point nominal size, with 6 points of space before and 6 points of space after.
The abstract and “resumo” (if is the case) must be in 12 point Times font, indented
0.8cm on both sides. The word
